All right we're nearly there at the end of this section.
But is one more important javascript concept.
I want to get across before we go and make our reaction Testa and that is functions.
So we've already kind of looked at functions already.
So we've created a function which is just a chunk of code that happens at a certain time and we've made
this case to happen when that button is clicked.
But we can also create our own functions that do whatever we want.
So I'm going to get rid of the text that's there for the moment and this but we will come back to this
because we're going to be remaking this with functions at the end of this video.
But for now let's just see how we define a very basic function.
So to define a function we use the keyword function and then we call the function whatever we want.
So I'm going to make a very basic function that just sends an alert.
So I'm going to call it alert me and then use parentheses.
As part of our function definition this one I'm not going to send any information to it.
I'm just going to call it.
So we've just got empty parentheses as we've seen before.
And all this function is going to be is alert that we're up and that's it.
So at the moment that won't do anything because all I've done is defined the function.
I haven't actually done this request yet.
So if I wanted to do it all I would do is use the command alerts me to run the function alerts me.
So that will now alert.
Hi there Rob.
So you might ask why why would we bother doing this it's a little bit of a complicated way of just doing
that.
Well the main thing is what you'll probably find when you're writing bigger more complicated websites
is that there are certain things that you want to do again and again.
And what is generally a really bad idea is writing code and then copying and pasting that code into
different portions of your javascript much better is to collect that code together into a function and
then just call that function whenever you want to do that thing.
So if you are making a game for example you might have a function that moves the main character and
then when a key is pressed then it calls that function and moves them in a certain direction.
Or you might have a function get tweets which gets the latest tweets for a particular user and then
the program can display them wherever you want them.
So they're essentially a way of keeping your code better organized more easily updatable and easier
to read.
As a general rule if you find yourself writing the same command twice it's probably better to put it
in a function so functions can obviously do a lot more than just alert things.
And as we've seen they can receive values as well.
So let's see how we receive those values.
Let's say for example I'm writing a web site which requires me to see average numbers a lot.
So take two numbers and find the average of them.
So if I want to define the average of X and Y that say I've got an X which is five and a Y which is
10 Obviously I could do X..
Plus Y and then put that in brackets and divide it by 2.
That would give me the average of those two.
But if I was doing that again and again and again I'd probably want to store that code somewhere else
so I didn't have it in lots of different places in my app.
So how could we do that with a function.
Well let's change this function to be called after each and this function is now going to need two numbers
because it can't tell the average of the numbers unless you tell the function what the numbers are.
So within our function Let's call these numbers a and b.
And that means that whenever we call this function average now we need to pass 2 numbers to it so then
how function is going to take the two numbers add them together and divide them by two just like we
said here.
And what we're going to want is the result to be given back once the function is complete and we do
that using the keyword return and then we put whatever value we want to return in brackets like that.
So what this will now do is allow us to call the function average with two numbers and then it will
return the value of those two numbers added together and divided by two.
So let's see it in action that alerts the average of X and Y
as have a look.
The answer is seven point five.
So this is calling the function average with the two numbers x and y.
And then the code will jump over here to average and then it will do the calculation.
Add them together and divide by two and then it will return that here.
So essentially it replaces this with the number that it finds when you add them together and divide
them by T.
So again a fairly trivial example.
But you can imagine some cases where you're averaging a lot.
It's a lot simpler to have your average function outside and then just look at this and you'll see what
I'm doing that is finding the average of the two of them.
So that's how we use functions to receive and return values of things.
Let's jump back using commands to our number guessing game and see how we can redefine this in terms
of functions.
Now this code is not particularly complicated.
We can follow it through and just about see what's going on but it might make more sense to extract
the guessing part of it as a function so see how that might look at the beginning of my code.
I'm going to define function and ocal it do a guess and any information function needs is the correct
answer.
So we'll call that correct.
Answer.
And that's what we refer to as in the function.
So the bit that we want to extract then is this bit here.
So I'm just going to copy all of that and I'll make some changes while we're in.
So we're going to create our guest variable and we're going to multiply by six and use floor to make
it a whole number.
And what we're going to do is check to see if guess is equal to not my number this time but correct
answer.
Because that's what we're calling it within this function.
And what we're going to do is if we've got it right then we'll return true which is meant by a Boullion
and if you've got it wrong return false.
So what we're essentially doing is silo ing a certain chunk of code or piece of logic into it's own
section of our code doesn't change a great deal and in this case it doesn't make it a lot more efficient.
But hopefully you can see that it makes a bit more sense to have this separate.
So now I no longer need this chunk of code because the guess is all happening inside the function up
here.
So instead of checking whether a guess is equal to my number I'm going to check whether I do I guess
is equal to a tree folks.
And remember I need to send the correct answer to Do I guess the correct answer is my number here.
So the logic is still the same but the structure of the code is now a bit different.
And the do I guess section of the code is taken out of the main body.
So whether you think that's better than it was before is a matter of opinion but definitely when your
code gets more complicated you'll find that taking chunks out into functions just makes it so much easier
to manage.
One more quick change before we run it.
Is this variable.
Guess is now only defined inside this function.
And this is something called scope which we'll look at in much greater detail as we go on in the course.
But essentially if a variable is defined inside a function it will only be available inside that function.
So we can't use the variable Gastown here.
But that's not a problem because we have the correct answer in another variable.
My number.
So let's just use my number instead.
All right let's just have a look and make sure things work.
Yeah.
Two guesses looks good.
Five eight guesses.
Looks like it's doing the right thing.
So it's the same code just restructured in the form of a function.
So congratulations you made it to the end of the main part of the JavaScript section of the course but
we still have our exciting reaction tester where we're going to put all of this together.
Coming up next.